[General Concept]
The concept of role-playing in Generation-X is based on portraying a specific character, which is developed by yourself and has different characteristics, feelings, background story and etcetera. It is basically making a unique virtual personality that you have control over, while playing within a frame of realism and portraying the real life. Your character even has his/her own name!

[Names]
Just like real life, your character must have a first-name and a last-name. You can get as creative as you want! However, you cannot name your character Mr Shooter or Avocado Master, or Shah Rukh Khan.
 
Why? Just like (most names) in real life, names must be realistic. Also, famous names are not allowed.
 
So... what are the limitations?
Just like any other game, there are certain rules that apply. Unlike shooters and other servers, the purpose is not killing as many people as you can, there is not teleporting and there are a set of rules that make role-play what it is.
 
First and foremost, we have two environments/definitions that separate the real life from the roleplaying world. The "RP world" is called IC (In Character), and simply put - it defines anything that happens within the boundaries of RP - it is what your character does, says and interacts with.
 
The opposite definition is OOC (Out of Character), and it defines everything that happens outside the boundaries of RP and is unrelated to the progression of your character.
 
Still confused? Let's give an example!
Let's say you want to send a private message to someone to ask him how to turn off the game sound. This is unrelated to your character, therefore, this is an OOC message.
 
On the other hand, let's say you walk up to someone and ask him how he is doing over the IC chat (will be explained later). This is IC. Because your character said something.
 
[Chats]
In order to allow you to communicate with other people as well regarding things which are unrelated to the RP world/your character, you can press T, which is strictly an OOC chat. You cannot discuss in-character things there. For example.. Telling your friend in OOC chat to come and help you with robbery.  
 
You need a working microphone to communicate and roleplay with other players. You must have a working microphone.
 
[Limitations - IC & OOC]
So... now that we know what IC and OOC means and we know how to use the chats, there is one last rule regarding the RP boundaries! 
 
Simply put - whatever happens IC, stays IC, and whatever happens OOC, stays OOC. Means, that you cannot use any OOC information ICly and vice versa. Breaking this rule is called Metagaming.
 
Still confused? Let's give an example!
You're walking around the city and you spot a suspicious car. You then call your friend on Skype and ask him to rush over to your and save you, then your friend comes over and picks you up. This is called metagaming, since he used information which was provided by OOC means ICly.
 
(Did you know? Using IC information OOCly is called Inciting to Metagame!)
 
[Actions]
A big part of role-playing is performing actions with your character. GTA 5 allows you to practically do anything. With that said, let's not forget! This is role-play and we must stay within realistic boundaries.
 
You are not allowed to do actions which you would (most likely) not be able to do in real life - for example, as much as we all would like to be able to lift cars and throw them at people, we cannot. And that means we shouldn't be doing that in-game either!
 
[Killing & Fear Factor]
In role-play, you must have a very good reason if you are about to kill someone! Because just like in real life, you wouldn't go about killing people for poor reasons or for no reason. Killing someone for no reason/poor reason is called Deathmatching.
 
In addition to that, you must RP fear when a situation arises in which you would most likely have a sense of fear in real life. For example, if someone aims a gun at you, you must RP being scared of getting killed, therefore... you wouldn't run towards the person and try to hit them, for example. You'd most likely cooperate. That's also how it is in RP.
 
[Rules]
Aside from the basics of RP, we also have certain rules on the server which can be accessible using this link:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UInSYRK2uMwmcBkCG2kC5nUVeoRCouI_rIViAXSKYgQ/edit
 
 
[Experience]
As you play, you will gain more and more experience and you will soon feel confident role-playing and interacting with others. Everything may seem a bit confusing at first when you just start, but don't worry! We all started from zero.

 Good luck!
